MBAL is now a large evidence system; the output is a small set of checked decisions.
The data map grew, but it also exposed the main gap: depth, not another model family.
The updated story is a funnel: many inputs, many findings, very few promoted claims.
Bacteria value is now measured as chronological warning: more episodes caught than AB411, with fewer scored false-alert days.
CatBoost improves ranking, but the operational gain is too small to justify a champion swap.
Forecast feeds pay only when fast carrier, headroom, and forecast skill all hold.
Cold-start transfer is replicated on two independent networks: NSW Australia and the Texas Gulf.
HAB/DA improved as a data and pilot lane, while the older broad DA overclaim is walked back.
Algae value is targeted and scoped: free satellite prioritization, plus a small NE/Midwest onset edge.
The one-system result is selective transfer from shared onset geometry, not a universal coupled predictor.
The gate saves work: stop engine churn, reject untestable model families, keep useful data layers scoped.
The updated MBAL story: bigger evidence base, narrower claims, clearer decisions.